# DD2380 A1

_Question 1 This problem can be formulated in matrix form. Please specify the initial probability
vector π, the transition probability matrix A and the observation probability matrix B._

Answer 1

π = 
[0.5, 0.5]

A =
[0.5, 0.5;
 0.5, 0.5]
 
B =
[0.9,0.1;
 0.5,0.5]

_Question 2 What is the result of this operation?_

[0.5,0.5]

_Question 3 What is the result of this operation?_

"this shows the probability of showing each result {head,tail}"

[0.7,0.3]

_tested this same matrix multiplication on kattis_


_Question 4 Why is it valid to substitute O1:t = o1:t with Ot = ot
for when we condition on the
state Xt = xi?_

When we substitute the O1:t with Ot we move the O1:t-1 to the probability of Xt. This is the thing with observations - we calculate their probability only based on the most probable hidden state. There is no direct information between the t-1 observation and the t observation. There is only information between the hidden states - and the states and its observation.

_Question 5 How many values are stored in the matrices δ and δ^idx respectively?_

The δ matrix stores the probability of every state at time step t calculated on the most probable preceding state. Therefore every timestep t∈T has N values (one for each state). Therefore T * N values.

δ^idx saves the most probable previding state at time t-1 for state i at t. The first states have no preceding states therefore there are at least (T-1 * N) values. If there are several states with the same probability they are both stored therefore there can be up to (T-1 * N^2) values if every state is as probable.

The δ matrix stores the probability of every state at time step t calculated on the most probable preceding state. Therefore every timestep t∈T has N values (one for each state). Therefore T * N values.
